# Longitudinal Changes in Iron Biomarkers During Natural Menopausal Transition in Women

This repository contains the R code used in the study titled "Longitudinal changes in iron biomarkers during natural menopausal transition in women".


## Abstract
- **Background:** The precise timing and patterns of changes in iron-related biomarkers during the menopausal transition are not well established. We examined longitudinal alterations in iron-related biomarkers among women experiencing natural menopause. 
- **Materials and Methods:** A retrospective longitudinal study included 2402 women aged 31–56 years undergoing natural menopause, with a minimum 3-year follow-up and data on final menstrual period (FMP). Longitudinal changes in iron measures were evaluated using linear mixed models based on the number of years before/after the FMP. Additionally, piecewise linear mixed models were constructed with the FMP as a midpoint landmark, comprising three segments: "before FMP," "1-year before/after FMP," and "after FMP."
- **Results:** Serum iron, ferritin, and transferrin saturation increased over time, whereas total iron-binding capacity (TIBC) decreased. TIBC rapidly declined around FMP, whereas other iron measures rapidly increased. Post-FMP, the other iron levels plateaued, whereas serum ferritin levels continued to increase, with its coefficient (SE) sharply increasing from 2.10 (0.34) to 20.27 (0.50) between the pre-FMP and around-FMP segments, and remaining high at 9.34 (0.40) post-FMP. High ferritin residuals (>1 SD above the mean) from linear regression models predicting ferritin levels by transferrin saturation were associated with fatty liver and metabolic syndrome components.
- **Conclusions:** serum ferritin levels steeply increased during menopausal transition and continued to increase after the FMP, while, other iron measurements changed rapidly during menopause but stabilized afterwards. Ferritin may reflect iron status as well as metabolic health.


## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Results](#result)
- [Data](#data)

## Overview
This repository includes the scripts used for data analysis and visualization in the study. The scripts are written in R version 4.3.2. The result files generated by the scripts are included in the repository, but the dataset used for the analysis is not included due to confidentiality.

## Requirements
The R packages required to run the scripts are listed in the `requirements.R` file. Ensure you have R version 4.3.2 installed.

## Installation
1. Clone this repository to your local machine:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/MJ-S-Kim/menopause-ferritin-analysis.git
    ```
2. Navigate to the repository directory:
    ```sh
    cd menopause-ferritin-analysis
    ```
3. Install the required R packages by running:
    ```r
    source("requirements.R")
    ```

## Usage
1. Open the R scripts in your R environment.
2. Run the scripts in the order specified to reproduce the analysis and results presented in the study.

## Result
The `result` directory contains the output files generated by the analysis scripts. These include tables, figures, and other relevant results discussed in the paper.

## Data
The dataset used for the analysis is not included in this repository due to confidentiality agreements. For data access requests, please contact the corresponding author of the study.
